---
title: "Thoughts on the Role of the IRTF"
abbrev: "Role of IRTF"
category: info

docname: draft-perkins-role-of-irtf-latest
submissiontype: IRTF
consensus: false
v: 3
area: General
workgroup: "IRTF"
keyword:
 - IRTF
venue:
  github: "csperkins/draft-perkins-role-of-irtf"
  latest: "https://csperkins.github.io/draft-perkins-role-of-irtf/draft-perkins-role-of-irtf.html"

author:
 -
    fullname: Colin Perkins
    organization: University of Glasgow
    email: csp@csperkins.org

normative:

informative:
  RFC2014:

  RFC4440:

  RFC7418:


--- abstract

TODO Abstract


--- middle

# Introduction

The Internet Research Task Force (IRTF) promotes research of importance to
the evolution of the Internet protocols, applications, architecture, and
technology. It focusses on longer term research issues related to the
Internet while the parallel organisation, the Internet Engineering Task
Force (IETF), considers shorter term issues of engineering and standards
making. The IRTF is research organisation, not a standards development
organisation.

The IAB has previously considered the role of the IRTF [RFC4440] and
the Primer on the IRTF for IETF Participants [RFC7418] also considers
the topic. This memo seeks to complement those prior discussions, in the
light of new experience in the decades since they were written. 

This memo is not an IETF product and is not a standard.


# Research Groups

The IRTF is primarily structured around a number of research groups. These
are generally, although not always, intended to be long-lived activities
that provide a venue for ongoing discussions of research ideas,
experimentation and prototyping, and the development of collaborations.

Some research groups focus on applied research and development, taking
ideas from the research community that are interesting, but under-explored,
and encouraging their development and use to see if they will really work
on, in, or for the Internet. Other times, the focus is on more open-ended
research that explores a problem, issue, or concern that might become
important to the Internet in future, or that encourages the development of
a nascent technology where the IRTF can help the research community connect
with people in the IETF who may have more practical Internet engineering or
operational experience. And, in certain circumstances, short-lived and
tightly focussed research groups may be chartered to consider, and perhaps
provide advice to the IETF community about, a specific problem or concern.

Research groups can publish experimental or informational documents in the
RFC series. Some groups make frequent and effective use of this publication
venue, but RFCs are often not the focus of research groups. The main output
of many research groups is knowledge and understanding, often expressed in
the form of academic papers or proof-of-concept implementations of new
ideas, rather than RFCs. IRTF research groups are successful if they
stimulate discussion, produce relevant research and advance the state of
knowledge, and make connections between the research and standards
communities.

Sometimes, the outcome of a research group is the understanding that an
idea is both practical and potentially useful. In this case it might be
worth developing into a product or standard, but there is no automatic path
into IETF, and outcomes of IRTF groups receive no special consideration in
the IETF process.

Research groups typically have a relatively broad remit, but their charters
are not open-ended. The focus is research, not engineering, so it’s not
generally appropriate for a research group to have explicit milestones and
deliverables in the manner of a standards development group, but the
research should have a clear theme, direction, and goal. Compared to IETF
working groups, which focus on effectively developing standards documents,
IRTF groups have much greater flexibility in both how they work and what
they are expected to produce.


# Community

Participation in research groups is by individual contributors, rather than
by representatives of organisations, and research groups generally have
open membership and do their work in public. 

The focus of most research groups is on supporting research collaborations
and connecting people. There needs to be an appropriate community, that can
bring together the right set of people to form collaborations and discuss
ideas, if a research group is to succeed and add value. Accordingly, the
IRTF isn’t always the right home for research, even if that research is
about the Internet. 

The IRTF often works best when bringing in new people, new ideas, and new
work and making connections between the IETF community and new parts of the
research community. Of course, research groups can still provide benefit
when a research topic is mature and there are strong existing connections
between the research community and IETF, by providing a venue where new
researchers can engage and a neutral space for researchers, standards
developers, and operators to discuss research ideas. Balancing such
different aspects of IRTF work, and how to allocate available resources to
each, is challenging but important.

Different communities can approach a problem from very different
directions, and may have different perspectives and approaches, and in
doing so may be able to find solutions that might otherwise be missed.
Accordingly, there may be value in a research group considering a problem
that is, or has been been, studied elsewhere. Generally, though, the IRTF
tries to avoid competing with other organisations.

Research groups with limited membership are permitted [RFC2014], but
none exist at the time of this writing and they are now rarely chartered.
If limited membership groups are to be chartered, this must be done with
care and sensitivity, for reasons that are well-defined and clearly
explained, so as to maintain trust in the integrity of the IRTF process and
avoid unnecessary fragmentation of the research community. 


# Workshops, Prizes, and Other Activities

In addition to its research groups, the IRTF sponsors a number of other
activities. At the time of this writing, these include the Applied
Networking Research Prize (ANRP), organised in conjunction with the
Internet Society, and the ACM/IRTF Applied Networking Research Workshop
(ANRW). 

The ANRW provides a venue for publication of academic research in the form
of a workshop that co-locates with the July IETF meeting. It is
co-sponsored by ACM SIGCOMM, the papers are published in the ACM Digital
Library, and it’s increasingly widely recognised by the academic research
community. PhD students and Faculty can benefit from attending to publish
research results, and in the process also gain the opportunity to engage
with IRTF and IETF more broadly, and to make useful connections with
standards developers and other researchers.

The ANRP, similarly, has been successful in bringing new people into the
IRTF community, and helping them make connections to the IETF standards
work, while raising awareness of the IRTF in the research community.
Several prize winners have brought their work into the IRTF or IETF,
leading to publication of a number of RFCs and improvements to several IETF
standards and to operational practise.

These activities play an important role in connecting the IRTF to the
academic research community and in providing an opportunity to potentially
translate research results into concrete impact via connections with the
standards community and broader industry.


# Relation to the IETF

The IRTF and IETF are closely related organisations, but have distinct
focus and goals. The IRTF promotes and conducts research; the IETF is an
engineering and standards development organisation.

The IRTF seeks to inform and educate the IETF community about the latest
advances in research in areas where the IETF operates, to help ensure IETF
standards and practises track the state of the art.

The IRTF seeks to introduce new research ideas to the IETF, and to raise
awareness of topics that might form the basis for future standards in new
areas as technology evolves in different directions.

The IRTF seeks to provoke the IETF community, introducing contrary
perspectives and new ideas, critiquing methods and approaches, and
challenging assumptions to help ensure the IETF community remains open to
new ideas and new ways of working.

The IRTF seeks to inform the research community about current challenges
relating to standards development, protocol engineering, and network
operations, arising from IETF activities, where further research may be
needed.

And the IRTF can act as a resource for the IETF, helping to connect
standards developers with experts who might help to review ideas or
proposals that need specialist expertise not otherwise be available. This
has been especially evident in the field of cryptography, where the Crypto
Forum Research Group coordinates expert advice on the appropriate use of
cryptographic algorithms, but it is not limited to that domain. 

In general, the IRTF seeks to encourage and facilitate connections and
collaboration between the research community and the standards development
and operations communities in the IETF, and to help facilitate knowledge
transfer, in both directions, and to provide a neutral space for
collaboration and discussion.


# Outreach

The research discussed in the IRTF often aligns closely with that promoted
by professional societies such ACM, IEEE, USENIX, etc., so it is desirable
for the IRTF to maintain good relations with those organisations and with
others conducting research that relates to the Internet. The ANRW is an
example of such collaboration. Participants in IRTF research groups also
regularly help to organise workshops associated with ACM and IEEE
conferences.

The range of IRTF research groups, and the relatively broad remit of their
charters, gives the opportunity to engage with a wide range of communities.
The research groups focussed on human rights, privacy, and the process of
standards-setting, for example, have made connections with NGOs and
advocacy groups, economists, sociologists, ethnographers, policymakers,
Internet governance organisations, and many others, as part of their
research. They’ve learned from the differing perspectives and experiences
of those communities and have, hopefully, offered useful new insights in
return.

Broad consultation, discussion, and debate is a necessary part of research.
IRTF research groups are encouraged to make broad connections with
researchers, and other interested parties, to understand their interests,
concerns, and points of view, and to share knowledge and expertise.

A key role of the IRTF is in providing a venue where those studying the
Internet can interact with those developing and operating the Internet.
That extends not just those studying Internet technologies, but also to
those studying the wider implications and uses of the Internet, and its
impact on economics, privacy, human rights, and society more broadly.
Helping those who develop and operate the Internet to understand the
broader implications of their work, and helping researchers studying the
wider use and impact of the Internet to understand how and why the Internet
works as it does, is an important part of role of the IRTF. 


# Security Considerations

TODO Security


# IANA Considerations

This document has no IANA actions.


--- back

# Acknowledgments
{:numbered="false"}

TODO acknowledge.
